Faculty Profile: Jason H. Davison
Assistant Professor

Department: Civil and Environmental Engineering

School: School of Engineering

Email: davisonj@cua.edu

Phone: 404-502-3842

Education: Ph.D., Earth and Environmental Sciences, University of
Waterloo, 2017

M.S., Environmental Fluid Mechanics and Hydrology, Stanford University,
2011

B.S., Civil and Environmental Engineering, Georgia Tech, 2008

Research Interests and Expertise:

Hydrology, groundwater, surface water, climate change, environmental
policy, microplastics, water cycle, modeling

Biography:

Dr. Jason Davison is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Civil
and Environmental Engineering at The Catholic University of America. His
research focuses on plastic waste, water modeling, the Anacostia River,
STEM education, and DEI work. Dr. Davison leads the AnthroHydro Research
team with PhD, masters, and undergraduate student participation.
Additionally, Dr. Davison is the director of the RAISE (Research and
Innovative STEM Education) program, which includes funding for research
projects, STEM education efforts, and a makerspace. Jason received his
PhD in Earth and Environmental Sciences from the University of Waterloo
in 2017, and his research focused on integrated atmosphere, surface, and
subsurface water flow models. He received his M.S. in Environmental
Fluid Mechanics and Hydrology from Stanford University and his B.S. in
Civil and Environmental Engineering from the Georgia Institute of
Technology.

Five Selected Papers:

[1]Shu Xu, SK Frey, AR Erler, O Khader, SJ Berg, HT Hwang, MV Callaghan,
JH Davison, EA Sudicky, “Investigating Groundwater-Lake Interactions in
the Laurentian Great Lakes with a Fully-Integrated Surface
Water-Groundwater Model,” Journal of Hydrology, 2020.

[2] J Chen, EA Sudicky, JH Davison, SK Frey, Y-J Park, H-T Hwang, AR
Erler, SJ Berg, MV Callaghan, K Miller, M Ross, WR Peltiert, “Towards a
climate-driven simulation of coupled surface-subsurface hydrology at the
continental scale: a Canadian example,” Canadian Water Resources
Journal/Revue canadienne des ressources hydriques, 2020.

[3] ML Wine and JH Davison, “Untangling global change impacts on
hydrological processes: Resisting climatization,” Hydrological
Processes, 2019.

[4] JH Davison, HT Hwang, EA Sudicky, DV Mallia, JC Lin, ”Full Coupling
Between the Atmosphere, Surface, and Subsurface for Integrated
Hydrologic Simulation,” Journal of Advances in Modeling Earth Systems,
2018.

[5] S Fatichi et al., “An overview of current applications, challenges,
and future trends in distributed process-based models in hydrology,”
Journal of Hydrology, 2016.

Professional Activities (please also include STEM


-   Member of the American Geophysical Union

-   Faculty Advisor for the American Society of Civil Engineering
    student group

-   Faculty Advisor for Grassroots Motorsports $2000 Challenge

-   Faculty Advisor for NSBE/SHPE/Diversity Engineering at CUA
