Faculty Profile: Diego Turo (One page per faculty member)
Associate Professor

Department: Mechanical Engineering

School: School of Engineering

Email: turo@cua.edu

Phone: 202-319-6669

Education: Ph.D., Acoustics, University of Salford, U.K., 2011

Nationality: Italian, Permanent US Alien Resident (green card holder)

Research Interests and Expertise:

Modeling sound propagation in heterogeneous atmosphere, through porous
materials and metamaterials; Modeling elastic wave propagation in
complex materials like living tissues; Modeling linear and nonlinear
sound propagation.

Biography:

Dr. Diego Turo joined the Catholic University of America in 2014 where
he currently is an associate professor in the Department of Mechanical
Engineering. His current research, funded by the Office of Naval
Research focuses on modeling sound propagation in heterogeneous
atmosphere and over rough sea and absorbing surfaces. Prior to joining
Catholic University, he was as researcher at the George Mason University
in the Department of Biomedical Engineering where he worked on
ultrasonic technique for mechanical characterization of living tissues.
Dr. Turo publications span in the fields of acoustics of porous media as
well as ultrasound atmospheric and underwater acoustics.

Five Selected Papers:

1.  A. Vecchiotti, T. J. Ryan, F. A. Cobb, J. F. Vignola, D. Turo,
    "Investigation of engineering models for sound propagation in a
    near-shore environment." Applied Acoustics, 2022

2.  N. T. Gangemi, C. F. Sieck, J. F. Vignola, D. Turo, A. Ikei, A.
    Vignola, J. W. Baldwin, S. W. Liskey, A. D. Edmunds, W. B.
    Wilson, M. A. Boone, G. Yesner, D. M. Photiadis, and B. R. Matis,
    "Frequency-dependent surface wave suppression at the Dirac point of
    an acoustic graphene analogue". Physical Review B, 2022

3.  J. Williams, F. Corvaro, J. F. Vignola, D. Turo, B. Marchetti,
    Matteo Vitali, "Application of non-invasive active infrared
    thermography for delamination detection in fresco", International
    Journal of Thermal Sciences, 2022S. Guan, J. Vignola, J. Judge,
    and D. Turo, “Airgun inter-pulse noise field during a seismicsurvey
    in an Arctic ultra-shallow marine environment,” Journal of the
    Acoustical Society of America, 138(6): 3447–3457 (2015).

4.  D. Turo, P. Otto, M. Hossain, T. Gebreab, K. Armstrong, W. F.
    Rosenberger, H. Shao, J. P. Shah, L. H. Gerber and S. Sikdar, "Novel
    use of ultrasound elastography to quantify muscle tissue changes
    after dry needling of myofascial trigger points in patients with
    chronic myofascial pain." J. Ultrasound Med., 34, 2149-61 (2015)

5.  D. Turo, P. Otto, J. Shah, J. Hammond, T. Gebreab, M. Zaazhoa, L.
    Gerber, S. Sikdar, “Ultrasonic Characterization of the Upper
    Trapezius Muscle in Patients with Chronic Neck Pain.” Ultrasonic
    Imaging (2013).

6.  D. Turo, O. Umnova, “Influence of Forchheimer’s Nonlinearity and
    Transient Effects onPulse Propagation in Air Saturated Rigid
    Granular Materials.” J. Acoust. Soc. Am., 134(6), 4763-4774 (2013).

Professional Activities (please also include STEM


-   Reviewer for the:

    -   Journal of Acoustical Society of America

    -   Applied Acoustics

    -   Acta Acoustica United with Acoustica

    -   Materials of MDPI

    -   Acoustics of MDPI
