Faculty Profile: Chuan-Fu Lin
Assistant Professor

Department: Mechanical Engineering

School: School of Engineering

Email: linc@cua.edu

Phone: 202-319-5662

Education: Ph.D., Materials Science and Engineering, University of
Maryland, 2012

Research Interests and Expertise:

Materials Synthesis and Processing: Battery Materials, Thin-Film
Materials, Atomic (Molecular) Layer Deposition (ALD/MLD), Hybrid
Flexible Materials, Energy Materials, Functional Materials Development,
Semiconductor Materials

Sustainability and Energy: Energy Storage, Solid-State Batteries, Li-ion
Battery and Beyond, Li-S Batteries, Magnesium Batteries,
Electrochemistry, Energy Conversion

Nanotechnology: Nanocomposite Synthesis, Directed Self-Assembly, Device
fabrication

Biography:

Chuan-Fu Lin joined the faculty of the School of Engineering’s
Department of Mechanical Engineering as an Assistant Professor in August
2019. Before he joined CUA, he was a research faculty member at the
University of Maryland, College Park since 2017.  One of Dr. Lin’s
research directions is to develop next-generation energy storage systems
through materials innovations and integrations to deliver lower-cost,
and eco-friendly energy storage technology for electronics, electric
vehicles, and micro-grids. Besides, he also investigates materials
properties (mechanical, electrical, electrochemical) of newly
synthesized materials.  Dr. Lin is leading the research lab of the
“Materials Innovation Laboratory for Energy and Advanced Manufacturing”,
to work on developing novel materials for the broad fields of
engineering, emphasizing on the energy and manufacturing challenges.  
Dr. Lin has been collaborated with several major battery manufacturers,
and with other research groups nationally and internationally. And his
research has been supported by Department of Energy, and National
Science Foundation.

Five Selected Papers:

1. Wang H, Gregorczyk , Lee S, Rubloff G, Lin C. Li-Containing Organic
Thin Film—Structure

of Lithium Propane Dioxide via Molecular Layer Deposition. The Journal
of Physical Chemistry

C. 2020 February 27; 124(12):6830.

2. Lin CF, Qi Y, Gregorczyk K, Lee SB, Rubloff GW. Nanoscale Protection
Layers To Mitigate

Degradation in High-Energy Electrochemical Energy Storage Systems. Acc
Chem Res. 2018

Jan 16;51(1):97-106.

3. Kozen A, Lin C, Zhao O, Lee S, Rubloff G, Noked M. Stabilization of
Lithium Metal Anodes

by Hybrid Artificial Solid Electrolyte Interphase. Chemistry of
Materials. 2017 July 06;

29(15):6298.

4. Lin CF, Noked M, Kozen AC, Liu C, Zhao O, Gregorczyk K, Hu L, Lee SB,
Rubloff GW. Solid

Electrolyte Lithium Phosphous Oxynitride as a Protective Nanocladding
Layer for 3D High-

Capacity Conversion Electrodes. ACS Nano. 2016 Feb 23;10(2):2693-701.

5. Lin C, Fan X, Pearse A, Liou S, Gregorczyk K, Leskes M, Wang C, Lee
S, Rubloff G, Noked

M. Highly reversible conversion-type FeOF composite electrode with
extended lithium insertion

by ALD LiPON protection. Chemistry of Materials. 2017 October;
29(20):8780.

Other Significant Products, Whether or Not Related to the Proposed
Project, Professional Activities (please also include STEM


1.  Associate Editor, Frontiers in Energy Research

2.  Reviewers for Nature Communication, Advanced Materials, Advanced
    Energy Materials .. ,etc.
