Jandro L. Abot
Associate Professor

Department: Mechanical Engineering

School: School of Engineering

University: The Catholic University of America

Email: abot@cua.edu

Phone: 202-319-4382

Education: Ph.D., Theoretical and Applied Mechanics, Northwestern
University, 2000

Research Interests and Expertise:

carbon nanotube fibers, integrated sensing, smart materials, structural
health monitoring, composite materials, nanocomposites, experimental
mechanics, thermomechanical characterization.

Biography:

Jandro L. Abot is an Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and
the Director of the Intelligent Materials Laboratory at the School of
Engineering of Catholic University. He was previously an Assistant
Professor in the Department of Aerospace Engineering and Engineering
Mechanics at the University of Cincinnati. Prior, he was a Post-Doctoral
Fellow at Northwestern University. He is the author or co-author of more
than one hundred and forty technical papers. He is the recipient of
several research awards from the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration, the United States Department of State, Petrobras and the
Air Force Office of Scientific Research. He has served as the main
advisor of more than fifty doctoral and masters’ students, taught more
than twenty-five different engineering courses, and advised hundreds of
mechanical or aerospace engineering undergraduate students.

Five Selected Papers:

1.  Rodríguez-Uicab, O., Tayyarian, T. and Abot, J. L. Effect of curing
    temperature of epoxy matrix on the electrical response of carbon
    nanotube yarn monofilament composites. J. Compos. Sci. 6, 43 (2022).

2.  Pirmoz, A., Abot, J. L. and Avilés, F. Simulation of mechanical
    response of carbon nanotube yarns under uniaxial tensile loading.
    Mech. Mater. 165, 104144 (2022).

3.  Rodríguez-Uicab, O., Abot, J. L and Avilés, F. Electrical resistance
    sensing of epoxy curing using an embedded carbon nanotube yarn.
    Sensors 20, 3230 (2020).

4.  Balam, A., Cen-Puc, M., Rodríguez-Uicab, O., Abot, J. L. and
    Avilés, F. Cyclic thermoresistivity of freestanding carbon nanotube
    yarns and yarns embedded into a polymer. Adv. Eng. Mater. 2000220
    (2020).

5.  Balam, A., Cen-Puc, M., May-Pat, A., Abot, J. L. and Avilés, F.
    Influence of polymer matrix on sensing capabilities of carbon
    nanotube polymeric thermistors. Smart Mater. Struct. 29: 015012
    (2020).

Professional Activities

-   Associate Editor of Journal of Carbon Research.

-   Advisory Board member of Sci and Encyclopedia (MDPI).

-   Editorial Board member of Sensors, Journal of Composites Science,
    Functional Composites and Structures.

-   Guest Editor of Special Issues: Structural Health Monitoring Using
    Carbon Nanotube Yarn-Based Sensors (Sensors); Integrated Structural
    Health Monitoring in Polymeric Composites (Sensors); Carbon-Based
    Sensors (Journal of Carbon Research); Novel Sensing Techniques and
    Approaches in Composite Materials (Journal of Multifunctional
    Composites).

-   Active member of the American Society for Composites, the American
    Society of Mechanical Engineers, and the American Society for
    Engineering Education.

-   Reviewed manuscripts for more than sixty international journals.

-   Active participant in engineering recruitment, inclusion, and
    international programs at Catholic University.
