Faculty Profile: Bismark Agbelie
Assistant Professor

Department: Civil and Environmental Engineering

School: School of Engineering

Email: agbelie@cua.edu

Phone: 202-319-5275

Education: PhD, Transportation Engineering and Infrastructure Systems
Management, Purdue University, 2013; MS, Economics, Purdue University,
2012; MSCE, Transportation Engineering, Purdue University, 2010, BSc,
Civil Engineering, KNUST-Ghana, 2003.

Research Interests and Expertise:

Transportation safety, transportation systems analysis, transportation
economics, finance and policy, transportation infrastructure economics
and management, econometric and statistical analysis, multi-objective
optimization, connected and autonomous vehicles in relation to
transportation safety and transportation infrastructure operations and
management.

Biography:

Bismark Agbelie joined the Catholic University of America in 2016 where
he is currently an assistant professor in the Department of Civil and
Environmental Engineering. Bismark Agbelie has over 20 years of combined
experience as a transportation engineer and a researcher in the fields
of transportation design and engineering, transportation asset
management, transportation safety, statistics/econometrics,
transportation infrastructure science, and economies. His research work
has been supported by various agencies including U.S. Department of
Transportation, Federal Highway administration, Indiana Department of
Transportation, and The World Bank. As of now, he has published 25
peer-reviewed journal articles, 23 conference papers, and 9 technical
reports. He is a reviewer for several transportation and infrastructure
journals, currently a panel member of four National Cooperative Highway
Research Program (NCHRP) projects from the Transportation Research Board
(TRB), and very active in three TRB technical committees: Economics and
Finance, Transportation Asset Management. Also, Dr. Agbelie is a Vice
Chair for Conferences for the ASCE’s Transportation Development
Institute.

Five Selected Papers:

1.  Agbelie, B. R. (2014). An empirical analysis of three econometric
      frameworks for evaluating economic impacts of transportation
      infrastructure expenditures across countries. Transport
      Policy, 35, 304-310.

2.  Agbelie, B. R., and Roshandeh, A. M. (2015). Impacts of
      signal-related characteristics on crash frequency at urban
      signalized intersections. Journal of Transportation Safety &
      Security, 7(3), 199-207.

3.  Agbelie, B. R., Labi, S., and Sinha, K. C. (2017). Estimating the
      marginal costs of bridge damage due to overweight vehicles using a
      modified equivalent-vehicle methodology and in-service data on
      life-cycle costs and usage. Transportation Research Part A: Policy
      and Practice, 95, 275-288.

4.  Agbelie, B., 2021. Impact of Highway Nonuser Revenue on Equity
      Ratio: Exploratory Analysis. Journal of Infrastructure Systems,
      27(3), 04021017.

5.  Jaafaru, H., Agbelie, B. (2022). Bridge maintenance planning
      framework using machine learning, multi-criteria decision making
      and evolutionary optimization models. Automation in Construction,
      143, 104585.

Professional Activities (please also include STEM


1.  Faculty member on DC FUSION Professional Development for STEM
      teachers in K-12 educational levels.
