Faculty Profile: Minhee Jun
Assistant Professor

Department: Electrical Engineering and Computer Science

School: School of Engineering

Email: junm@cua.edu

Phone: 202-319-6441

Education: Ph.D., Electrical and Computer Engineering, Carnegie Mellon
University, 2016

Research Interests and Expertise:
Wireless Communication and Signal Processing Mathematical Modeling and
Estimation, Internet-of-Things, Blockchain technology, Cybersecurity,
Algorithm design, and Optimization Algorithm.

Biography:
Dr. Minhee Jun is currently an Assistant Professor in the department of
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the Catholic University
of America. Dr. Jun completed her Ph.D. in Electrical and Computer
Engineering (ECE) at Carnegie Mellon University (CMU) in 2016. Her
research topic concerned the development of an efficient algorithm that
finds an optimal configuration in time for a reconfigurable RF
front-end, a multi-standards future wireless communication platform. In
2017, she joined the CMU CyLab Biometrics Center as a postdoctoral
researcher working on experimental projects involving heart rate
detection and face spoofing detection, using the Moiré effect caused by
the display resolution of a spoofing electrical device. She designed a
benchmarking system of a face detection algorithm for an artificial
intelligence and security system at HawXeye Inc,. At Bossa Nova
Robotics, she has developed algorithms that improve a stitching and
blending tool to generate a panorama in a robot, has designed a
detection and classification system of sensor issues in a dynamic robot
based on a panorama, and has also designed a barcode associator that
improves label detection. She has published research papers in leading
wireless communication journals and conference publications, including
the IEEE EURASIP Journal on Wireless Communications and Networking, and
the IEEE Global Communications Conference, and some of the most
well-known conferences in the field.

Five Selected Papers:

1.  Mohammad Alharbi, Minhee Jun, Hang Liu, "A Time- and
    Energy-Efficient MassiveMIMO-NOMA

  MEC Offloading Technique: A Distributed ADMM Approach, " In 2022 IEEE
  Global Communications Conference (GLOBECOM). IEEE, 2022

2.  Minhee Jun, Rohit Negi, Shihui Yin, Mohamed Alawieh, Fa Wang, Megha
    Sunny, Tamal Mukherjee, and Xin Li, "Environment-Adaptable Fast
    Multi-Resolution (EAF-MR) optimization in largescale RF-FPGA
    systems," EURASIP Journal on Wireless Communications and Networking
    2018, no. 1 (2018): 68.

3.  Minhee Jun, Rohit Negi, Shihui Yin, Fa Wang, Megha Sunny, Tamal
    Mukherjee, Xin Li, "Phase Noise Impairment and Environment-Adaptable
    Fast (EAF) Optimization for Programming of Reconfigurable Radio
    Frequency (RF) Receivers," In 2015 IEEE Global Communications
    Conference (GLOBECOM), pp. 1-6. IEEE, 2015.

4.  Minhee Jun, Rohit Negi, Ying-Chih Wang, Tamal Mukherjee, Xin Li, Jun
    Tao, and Larry Pileggi, "Joint invariant estimation of RF
    impairments for reconfigurable Radio Frequency (RF) front-end," In
    2014 IEEE Globecom Workshops (GC Wkshps), pp. 954-959. IEEE, 2014.

5.  Minhee Jun, RohitNegi, Jun Tao, Ying-ChihWang, Shihui Yin, Tamal
    Mukherjee, Xin Li, and Larry Pileggi, "Environment-adaptable
    efficient optimization for programming of reconfigurable radio
    frequency (rf) receivers," IEEE Military Communications Conference
    (MILCOM), pp. 1459-1465. IEEE, 2014.

Professional Activities (please also include STEM


-   Member, Korean-American Scientists and Engineers (KASE) - kase.org

  2023–present

-   Member, Korean-American Women in Science and Engineering (KWiSE) -
    kwise.org

  2023–present

-   Professional Member, Institute of Electrical and Electronics
    Engineers (IEEE) - www.ieee.org

  2020–Present

-   EECS Spring Seminar, Catholic University of America

  April, 2022

-   Pannel, National Science Foundation (NSF) - CRII program

  November, 2021

-   
