Faculty Profile: Nader Namazi
Professor

Department: Electrical Engineering and Computer Science

School: School of Engineering

Email: namazi@cua.edu

Phone: 202-319-6153

Education: Ph.D., Electrical Engineering, Missouri University of Science
and Technology (Missouri S&T), 1985.

Research Interests and Expertise:

Statistical signal and image processing, image motion detection and
estimation, free-space optical communication, and wireless
communications.

Biography:

Nader Namazi joined the Catholic University of America in 1991 where he
currently is a Professor and Chair in the Department of Electrical
Engineering and Computer Science. Prior to joining Catholic University,
he was a senior faculty in Electrical Engineering at the Michigan
Technological University, Houghton, MI. In his professional years, Dr.
Namazi has published over 100 Journal Articles, Conference Papers, Book
Chapter, and Editorials. He has produced over 24 doctoral and master
students, some of whom are currently distinguished professors and highly
ranked professionals. His research efforts have been funded and
supported by the National Science Foundation, Office of Naval Research,
and other reputable laboratories and foundations.

Five Selected Papers:

1.  V. Abolhasannejad, X. Huang, N. M. Namazi, “Developing an Optical
    Image-Based Method for Bridge Deformation Measurement Considering
    Camera Motion'', Sensors 18 (9), 2754, 2018.

2.  M. M. Sepantaie, N. M. Namazi, A. M. Sepantaie, “Spectral Analysis
    and Implementation of Secure Chaotic Free-Space Optical
    Communication Systems”, Optical Engineering, 57 (10), 106101, 2018.

3.  N. M. Namazi, W. S. Sharpf, J. Obermark, J. N. Caron, “Global
    Registration and Moving Objects Detection in Noisy Airborne Image
    Sequences'', Optical Engineering, 49(12), 127005, December 2010.

4.  N. Namazi, R. Burris, G. Gilbreath, “Analytical Approach to the
    Calculation of Probability of Bit Error and Optimum Thresholds in
    Free-Space Optical Communication”, Optical Engineering, 46(2),
    February 2007.

5.  N. M. Namazi, (Book), "New Algorithms for Variable Time Delay and
    Nonuniform Image Motion Estimation", Ablex Publishing Corporation,
    1994.

Professional Activities (please also include STEM


-   Life-Time Senior Member of IEEE

-   IEEE International Conference on Image Processing (ICIP).

-   IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal
      Processing (ICASSP).
